README.md, before:

# Ansible Role: GitLab

[![CI](https://github.com/geerlingguy/ansible-role-gitlab/workflows/CI/badge.svg?event=push)](https://github.com/geerlingguy/ansible-role-gitlab/actions?query=workflow%3ACI)

Installs GitLab, a Ruby-based front-end to Git, on any RedHat/CentOS or Debian/Ubuntu linux system.

GitLab's default administrator account details are below; be sure to login immediately after installation and change these credentials!

    root
    5iveL!fe

## Requirements

None.

## Role Variables

Available variables are listed below, along with default values (see `defaults/main.yml`):

    gitlab_domain: gitlab
    gitlab_external_url: "https://{{ gitlab_domain }}/"

The domain and URL at which the GitLab instance will be accessible. This is set as the `external_url` configuration setting in `gitlab.rb`, and if you want to run GitLab on a different port (besides 80/443), you can specify the port here (e.g. `https://gitlab:8443/` for port 8443).

    gitlab_git_data_dir: "/var/opt/gitlab/git-data"

The `gitlab_git_data_dir` is the location where all the Git repositories will be stored. You can use a shared drive or any path on the system.

    gitlab_backup_path: "/var/opt/gitlab/backups"

The `gitlab_backup_path` is the location where Gitlab backups will be stored.

    gitlab_edition: "gitlab-ce"

The edition of GitLab to install. Usually either `gitlab-ce` (Community Edition) or `gitlab-ee` (Enterprise Edition).

    gitlab_version: ''

If you'd like to install a specific version, set the version here (e.g. `11.4.0-ce.0` for Debian/Ubuntu, or `11.4.0-ce.0.el7` for RedHat/CentOS).

    gitlab_config_template: "gitlab.rb.j2"

The `gitlab.rb.j2` template packaged with this role is meant to be very generic and serve a variety of use cases. However, many people would like to have a much more customized version, and so you can override this role's default template with your own, adding any additional customizations you need. To do this:

  - Create a `templates` directory at the same level as your playbook.
  - Create a `templates\mygitlab.rb.j2` file (just choose a different name from the default template).
  - Set the variable like: `gitlab_config_template: mygitlab.rb.j2` (with the name of your custom template).

### SSL Configuration.

    gitlab_redirect_http_to_https: true
    gitlab_ssl_certificate: "/etc/gitlab/ssl/{{ gitlab_domain }}.crt"
    gitlab_ssl_certificate_key: "/etc/gitlab/ssl/{{ gitlab_domain }}.key"

GitLab SSL configuration; tells GitLab to redirect normal http requests to https, and the path to the certificate and key (the default values will work for automatic self-signed certificate creation, if set to `true` in the variable below).

    # SSL Self-signed Certificate Configuration.
    gitlab_create_self_signed_cert: true
    gitlab_self_signed_cert_subj: "/C=US/ST=Missouri/L=Saint Louis/O=IT/CN={{ gitlab_domain }}"

Whether to create a self-signed certificate for serving GitLab over a secure connection. Set `gitlab_self_signed_cert_subj` according to your locality and organization.

### LetsEncrypt Configuration.

    gitlab_letsencrypt_enable: false
    gitlab_letsencrypt_contact_emails: ["gitlab@example.com"]
    gitlab_letsencrypt_auto_renew_hour: 1
    gitlab_letsencrypt_auto_renew_minute: 30
    gitlab_letsencrypt_auto_renew_day_of_month: "*/7"
    gitlab_letsencrypt_auto_renew: true

GitLab LetsEncrypt configuration; tells GitLab whether to request and use a certificate from LetsEncrypt, if `gitlab_letsencrypt_enable` is set to `true`. Multiple contact emails can be configured under `gitlab_letsencrypt_contact_emails` as a list.

    # LDAP Configuration.
    gitlab_ldap_enabled: false
    gitlab_ldap_host: "example.com"
    gitlab_ldap_port: "389"
    gitlab_ldap_uid: "sAMAccountName"
    gitlab_ldap_method: "plain"
    gitlab_ldap_bind_dn: "CN=Username,CN=Users,DC=example,DC=com"
    gitlab_ldap_password: "password"
    gitlab_ldap_base: "DC=example,DC=com"

GitLab LDAP configuration; if `gitlab_ldap_enabled` is `true`, the rest of the configuration will tell GitLab how to connect to an LDAP server for centralized authentication.

    gitlab_dependencies:
      - openssh-server
      - postfix
      - curl
      - openssl
      - tzdata

Dependencies required by GitLab for certain functionality, like timezone support or email. You may change this list in your own playbook if, for example, you would like to install `exim` instead of `postfix`.

    gitlab_time_zone: "UTC"

Gitlab timezone.

    gitlab_backup_keep_time: "604800"

How long to keep local backups (useful if you don't want backups to fill up your drive!).

    gitlab_download_validate_certs: true

Controls whether to validate certificates when downloading the GitLab installation repository install script.

    # Email configuration.
    gitlab_email_enabled: false
    gitlab_email_from: "gitlab@example.com"
    gitlab_email_display_name: "Gitlab"
    gitlab_email_reply_to: "gitlab@example.com"

Gitlab system mail configuration. Disabled by default; set `gitlab_email_enabled` to `true` to enable, and make sure you enter valid from/reply-to values.

    # SMTP Configuration
    gitlab_smtp_enable: false
    gitlab_smtp_address: "smtp.server"
    gitlab_smtp_port: "465"
    gitlab_smtp_user_name: "smtp user"
    gitlab_smtp_password: "smtp password"
    gitlab_smtp_domain: "example.com"
    gitlab_smtp_authentication: "login"
    gitlab_smtp_enable_starttls_auto: true
    gitlab_smtp_tls: false
    gitlab_smtp_openssl_verify_mode: "none"
    gitlab_smtp_ca_path: "/etc/ssl/certs"
    gitlab_smtp_ca_file: "/etc/ssl/certs/ca-certificates.crt"

Gitlab SMTP configuration; of `gitlab_smtp_enable` is `true`, the rest of the configuration will tell GitLab how to send mails using an smtp server.

    gitlab_nginx_listen_port: 8080

If you are running GitLab behind a reverse proxy, you may want to override the listen port to something else.

    gitlab_nginx_listen_https: false

If you are running GitLab behind a reverse proxy, you may wish to terminate SSL at another proxy server or load balancer

    gitlab_nginx_ssl_verify_client: ""
    gitlab_nginx_ssl_client_certificate: ""

If you want to enable [2-way SSL Client Authentication](https://docs.gitlab.com/omnibus/settings/nginx.html#enable-2-way-ssl-client-authentication), set `gitlab_nginx_ssl_verify_client` and add a path to the client certificate in `gitlab_nginx_ssl_client_certificate`.

    gitlab_default_theme: 2

GitLab includes a number of themes, and you can set the default for all users with this variable. See [the included GitLab themes to choose a default](https://github.com/gitlabhq/gitlabhq/blob/master/config/gitlab.yml.example#L79-L85).

    gitlab_extra_settings:
      - gitlab_rails:
          - key: "trusted_proxies"
            value: "['foo', 'bar']"
          - key: "env"
            type: "plain"
            value: |
              {
              "http_proxy" => "https://my_http_proxy.company.com:3128",
              "https_proxy" => "https://my_http_proxy.company.com:3128",
              "no_proxy" => "localhost, 127.0.0.1, company.com"
              }
      - unicorn:
          - key: "worker_processes"
            value: 5
          - key: "pidfile"
            value: "/opt/gitlab/var/unicorn/unicorn.pid"

Gitlab have many other settings ([see official documentation](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/omnibus-gitlab/blob/master/files/gitlab-config-template/gitlab.rb.template)), and you can add them with this special variable `gitlab_extra_settings` with the concerned setting and the `key` and `value` keywords.

## Dependencies

None.

## Example Playbook

    - hosts: servers
      vars_files:
        - vars/main.yml
      roles:
        - { role: geerlingguy.gitlab }

*Inside `vars/main.yml`*:

    gitlab_external_url: "https://gitlab.example.com/"

## License

MIT / BSD

## Author Information

This role was created in 2014 by [Jeff Geerling](http://jeffgeerling.com/), author of [Ansible for DevOps](http://ansiblefordevops.com/).

Commit message:

Allow 'gitlab_extra_settings' to be provided as a simple string.

README.md, after:

# Ansible Role: GitLab

[![CI](https://github.com/geerlingguy/ansible-role-gitlab/workflows/CI/badge.svg?event=push)](https://github.com/geerlingguy/ansible-role-gitlab/actions?query=workflow%3ACI)

Installs GitLab, a Ruby-based front-end to Git, on any RedHat/CentOS or Debian/Ubuntu linux system.

GitLab's default administrator account details are below; be sure to login immediately after installation and change these credentials!

    root
    5iveL!fe

## Requirements

None.

## Role Variables

Available variables are listed below, along with default values (see `defaults/main.yml`):

    gitlab_domain: gitlab
    gitlab_external_url: "https://{{ gitlab_domain }}/"

The domain and URL at which the GitLab instance will be accessible. This is set as the `external_url` configuration setting in `gitlab.rb`, and if you want to run GitLab on a different port (besides 80/443), you can specify the port here (e.g. `https://gitlab:8443/` for port 8443).

    gitlab_git_data_dir: "/var/opt/gitlab/git-data"

The `gitlab_git_data_dir` is the location where all the Git repositories will be stored. You can use a shared drive or any path on the system.

    gitlab_backup_path: "/var/opt/gitlab/backups"

The `gitlab_backup_path` is the location where Gitlab backups will be stored.

    gitlab_edition: "gitlab-ce"

The edition of GitLab to install. Usually either `gitlab-ce` (Community Edition) or `gitlab-ee` (Enterprise Edition).

    gitlab_version: ''

If you'd like to install a specific version, set the version here (e.g. `11.4.0-ce.0` for Debian/Ubuntu, or `11.4.0-ce.0.el7` for RedHat/CentOS).

    gitlab_config_template: "gitlab.rb.j2"

The `gitlab.rb.j2` template packaged with this role is meant to be very generic and serve a variety of use cases. However, many people would like to have a much more customized version, and so you can override this role's default template with your own, adding any additional customizations you need. To do this:

  - Create a `templates` directory at the same level as your playbook.
  - Create a `templates\mygitlab.rb.j2` file (just choose a different name from the default template).
  - Set the variable like: `gitlab_config_template: mygitlab.rb.j2` (with the name of your custom template).

### SSL Configuration.

    gitlab_redirect_http_to_https: true
    gitlab_ssl_certificate: "/etc/gitlab/ssl/{{ gitlab_domain }}.crt"
    gitlab_ssl_certificate_key: "/etc/gitlab/ssl/{{ gitlab_domain }}.key"

GitLab SSL configuration; tells GitLab to redirect normal http requests to https, and the path to the certificate and key (the default values will work for automatic self-signed certificate creation, if set to `true` in the variable below).

    # SSL Self-signed Certificate Configuration.
    gitlab_create_self_signed_cert: true
    gitlab_self_signed_cert_subj: "/C=US/ST=Missouri/L=Saint Louis/O=IT/CN={{ gitlab_domain }}"

Whether to create a self-signed certificate for serving GitLab over a secure connection. Set `gitlab_self_signed_cert_subj` according to your locality and organization.

### LetsEncrypt Configuration.

    gitlab_letsencrypt_enable: false
    gitlab_letsencrypt_contact_emails: ["gitlab@example.com"]
    gitlab_letsencrypt_auto_renew_hour: 1
    gitlab_letsencrypt_auto_renew_minute: 30
    gitlab_letsencrypt_auto_renew_day_of_month: "*/7"
    gitlab_letsencrypt_auto_renew: true

GitLab LetsEncrypt configuration; tells GitLab whether to request and use a certificate from LetsEncrypt, if `gitlab_letsencrypt_enable` is set to `true`. Multiple contact emails can be configured under `gitlab_letsencrypt_contact_emails` as a list.

    # LDAP Configuration.
    gitlab_ldap_enabled: false
    gitlab_ldap_host: "example.com"
    gitlab_ldap_port: "389"
    gitlab_ldap_uid: "sAMAccountName"
    gitlab_ldap_method: "plain"
    gitlab_ldap_bind_dn: "CN=Username,CN=Users,DC=example,DC=com"
    gitlab_ldap_password: "password"
    gitlab_ldap_base: "DC=example,DC=com"

GitLab LDAP configuration; if `gitlab_ldap_enabled` is `true`, the rest of the configuration will tell GitLab how to connect to an LDAP server for centralized authentication.

    gitlab_dependencies:
      - openssh-server
      - postfix
      - curl
      - openssl
      - tzdata

Dependencies required by GitLab for certain functionality, like timezone support or email. You may change this list in your own playbook if, for example, you would like to install `exim` instead of `postfix`.

    gitlab_time_zone: "UTC"

Gitlab timezone.

    gitlab_backup_keep_time: "604800"

How long to keep local backups (useful if you don't want backups to fill up your drive!).

    gitlab_download_validate_certs: true

Controls whether to validate certificates when downloading the GitLab installation repository install script.

    # Email configuration.
    gitlab_email_enabled: false
    gitlab_email_from: "gitlab@example.com"
    gitlab_email_display_name: "Gitlab"
    gitlab_email_reply_to: "gitlab@example.com"

Gitlab system mail configuration. Disabled by default; set `gitlab_email_enabled` to `true` to enable, and make sure you enter valid from/reply-to values.

    # SMTP Configuration
    gitlab_smtp_enable: false
    gitlab_smtp_address: "smtp.server"
    gitlab_smtp_port: "465"
    gitlab_smtp_user_name: "smtp user"
    gitlab_smtp_password: "smtp password"
    gitlab_smtp_domain: "example.com"
    gitlab_smtp_authentication: "login"
    gitlab_smtp_enable_starttls_auto: true
    gitlab_smtp_tls: false
    gitlab_smtp_openssl_verify_mode: "none"
    gitlab_smtp_ca_path: "/etc/ssl/certs"
    gitlab_smtp_ca_file: "/etc/ssl/certs/ca-certificates.crt"

Gitlab SMTP configuration; of `gitlab_smtp_enable` is `true`, the rest of the configuration will tell GitLab how to send mails using an smtp server.

    gitlab_nginx_listen_port: 8080

If you are running GitLab behind a reverse proxy, you may want to override the listen port to something else.

    gitlab_nginx_listen_https: false

If you are running GitLab behind a reverse proxy, you may wish to terminate SSL at another proxy server or load balancer

    gitlab_nginx_ssl_verify_client: ""
    gitlab_nginx_ssl_client_certificate: ""

If you want to enable [2-way SSL Client Authentication](https://docs.gitlab.com/omnibus/settings/nginx.html#enable-2-way-ssl-client-authentication), set `gitlab_nginx_ssl_verify_client` and add a path to the client certificate in `gitlab_nginx_ssl_client_certificate`.

    gitlab_default_theme: 2

GitLab includes a number of themes, and you can set the default for all users with this variable. See [the included GitLab themes to choose a default](https://github.com/gitlabhq/gitlabhq/blob/master/config/gitlab.yml.example#L79-L85).

    gitlab_extra_settings:
      - gitlab_rails:
          - key: "trusted_proxies"
            value: "['foo', 'bar']"
          - key: "env"
            type: "plain"
            value: |
              {
              "http_proxy" => "https://my_http_proxy.company.com:3128",
              "https_proxy" => "https://my_http_proxy.company.com:3128",
              "no_proxy" => "localhost, 127.0.0.1, company.com"
              }
      - unicorn:
          - key: "worker_processes"
            value: 5
          - key: "pidfile"
            value: "/opt/gitlab/var/unicorn/unicorn.pid"

    gitlab_extra_settings: |
        # contfigure object storage to use S3
        gitlab_rails['object_store']['enabled'] = true
        gitlab_rails['object_store']['proxy_download'] = true
        gitlab_rails['object_store']['connection'] = {
            'provider' => 'AWS',
            'region' => '{{ ansible_ec2_placement_region }}',
            'use_iam_profile' => true
        }
        gitlab_rails['object_store']['storage_options'] = {
            'server_side_encryption' => 'AES256'
        }

Gitlab have many other settings ([see official documentation](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/omnibus-gitlab/blob/master/files/gitlab-config-template/gitlab.rb.template)), and you can add them with this special variable `gitlab_extra_settings` with the concerned setting and the `key` and `value` keywords, or alternatively provide `gitlab_extra_settings` as a string to have the entire string appended as is. 

## Dependencies

None.

## Example Playbook

    - hosts: servers
      vars_files:
        - vars/main.yml
      roles:
        - { role: geerlingguy.gitlab }

*Inside `vars/main.yml`*:

    gitlab_external_url: "https://gitlab.example.com/"

## License

MIT / BSD

## Author Information

This role was created in 2014 by [Jeff Geerling](http://jeffgeerling.com/), author of [Ansible for DevOps](http://ansiblefordevops.com/).
